Steganography is an arrangement of disguising one data into another data or in a couple of media for e.g. content, picture, sound, video etc. The main purpose of this is to hide a high amount of personal data into a host media so that the data can be prevented from the attack of unwanted users. In steganography, there are three things that are important first to increase hiding capacity, vitality to certain attacks and to increase the security. In Image steganography the mystery information is installed inside a picture has been broadly considered amid the most recent decade because of the cost diminishing of picture accumulating and correspondence and besides the deficiencies of the human visual system (HVS). The host picture is alluded to as the first picture while the picture which is acquired by implanting mystery picture inside cover picture so that no change is occurring is named as stego picture. The Payload is characterized as the span of the mystery picture which is to be joined with the host picture. Steganography is the method of concealing a message covertly into a cover media with no adjustments in the cover media so nobody can presume the media that any mystery data is available in it or not aside from the approved individual. It assumes a critical part of securing imperative data over unreliable correspondence channel by giving an envelope to the data. The word steganography is derived from the two words namely Stego and grafia where stego means cover and grafia means writing.The host file could be any file for eg. text file, image, video, audio etc. Among all the available file,an image is considered very popular media in steganography due to the high degree of redundancy. It is secure because after embedding the image in the host image the image doesn’t change and looks similar to that of the host image. 1.1 Objective The main objective is to increase the level of security while hiding the data into the host media. The way toward implanting is done in two stages, the initial step is to change mystery bits and the second step is to insert it into have the picture. The spots in host picture are characterized by requesting of finding the pixels and beginning stage is checking and discovering best LSBs of every pixel. The genetic algorithm is used to determine the best point for inserting image such that the value of PSNR should come maximum. Higher the psnr value more it will efficient. It has the following objectives:  To create a tool that is efficient and secure than others.  It should be easy to use.  It should work cross-platform.  It should effectively hide a message in such a way original image remains as it is there should no change in the host image and cant be easily detected.  The apparatus should consider the first substance to hypothetically more viably shroud the message. 1.2 Motivation Nowadays various information is transmitted through the internet but it has some risks that sometimes there is some information which is so important but it can be misused by the intruder that’s why encrypting data is the best thing to protect information but this protection can be broken with enough computational power. Another method for scrambling information is to conceal it by influencing data to look like something different. This way only friends would able to recognize its true content.In particular, if the important data is hidden inside of an image then everyone but your friends would view it as a picture. But your friends will aware of that fact and they could retrieve the secret information. This technique is often called data hiding or stenography. Sometimes people want to share some important texts to another person such that they want that it should not get known to any another person, so they use different techniques to send messages, but it was not so much secured. So due to this, we decided to make some new techniques which are more secure than others. So, in this technique, we will send the text encrypted in some image and then that image is transferred to another person so that it could easily be transferred to the person securely. 1.3 Overview The way toward installing is done in two principle steps-initial step is to adjust mystery bits and the second step is to implant it into have picture The better places in host picture is characterized by request of checking host pixels and the beginning stage is examining and best LSB of every pixel. The Genetic algorithm is a type of search technique algorithm which is used to find the best optimal solution among all the solution so comparing with the image steganography it is used to locate the best pixel in which the image can be embedded. It changes secret bits to get more compatible with host image. In this process, overall encryption process is optimized by GA which protects it from RS attacks. The first step is similar to LSB which includes the embedding of secret images into the host images and in the second step we alter the pixel to get the stego image based on GA which helps to find the best pixel for embedding. Fig1.1 shows the basic flow of the project.
